# The Cipherists

The server room Elliot Fetterman overlooks is red-hot, the dry air perturbed by
the heat, no light other than the glow of near molten radiators. The entire
computing array is sunken down into the ground, slightly; his view of it is
obscured by the reinforced metal framing of a thick acrylic window, tilted
overlooking the expanse. Each node flickers, and the whole valley of computers
fades into the dark fog of the background.

Elliot relaxes with one leg scrunched up on the windowsill as he swings the
other back and forth. He looks at the computers as they silently do their work.
The clusters of nodes pipe their heat directly into crucibles full of solid
metal (the heat sinks). These crucibles roll along slow conveyors in alternating
directions sucking all the residual energy from the nodes, but after a while,
even they fail. By the end of the journey, the crucibles' contents liquify and
bubble in the excess heat, before they are brought underground even further to
cool and solidify for reuse. Elliot can't see more than the dim red ones.

Twelve-hundred exaFLOPS is a pretty small number, and likewise this is a pretty
small server. Underground and protected from any strife, the single square
kilometer server is forgotten. It's perfect --- just the place Elliot and the
others have needed. They currently stay in one of the attached utility rooms for
human operators. But human operators never go down there; in fact, it is
unlikely anyone has seen this server in decades.

Clearly, modern computer hardware is not designed for elegance. Massive scale is
the matter of importance left. A few hundred thousand cheap, low transistor
count chips, with high heat tolerance is better than any single, precious,
fragile, quadrillion transistor, _outrageously-large-scale_ integrated chip,
painstakingly designed with the knowledge of over a hundred years of
semiconductor fabrication. At least, this is what the engineers say now. And
they haven't a clue as to how the Matrix works!

"Elliot," Manoj asks. He lays unconscious, elongated by his thin frame, in a
cushioned reclining chair. His arm is plugged in from his wrist to a _portable_
neural modem, his favorite one in fact, which weighs over one hundred pounds. It
is about the size of a dresser. The tens of unorganized wires protruding from
his wrist resemble red muscle fibers. Elliot is unfazed.

"Elliot..." Elliot's neural modem, on the other hand, is slightly smaller and
substantially thinner than a milk carton. It fits in his backpack and connects
to him wirelessly using a spine mounted wireless implant. Manoj doesn't have
wireless implants. He doesn't need them. He spends every day in the Matrix,
unlike Elliot. But that's simply the reality of the situation --- more
specifically, it's what the situation demands of him.

"Elliot---" One large cable pierces through a hole in the concrete, which runs
to one of the clusters in the festering mass of computers. The end splits
haphazardly to the three Cipherists: Manoj, Anita, and Elliot. Even the wireless
modems get a taste of this speed (although nowhere is it more than one hundred
milliseconds, thanks to advances in Internet infrastructure: the backbone of the
Matrix). It's the best possible connection to the Matrix, but soon Elliot will
be forced back on the wireless network.

"Elliot!" The layered sounds of the utterance come to Elliot in delayed steps,
one after the other, forming an alien, persistent thought in his mind, echoing
its serious tone. It's a peer-to-peer connection not routed through the Matrix.

"Fuck you! What is it!"

Manoj messages what would be a rightward nod, if he were in front of Elliot, to
Elliot over the same peer-to-peer connection. Some primitive reflex in Elliot's
mind is enough to understand this synthetic non-verbal unreal communication. The
connection is facilitated directly by the neural modems and not the Matrix, so
it makes sense that anything emulating the genius of the Adam Task's signals ---
like this protocol --- would be so nebulous and unintuitive. But it makes up for
this, in the eyes of many, since it doesn't require a connection to the Matrix.

Elliot looks to his right. Provisions litter the place, now long consumed and
discarded in the small room. On the stepped concrete floor, Rafael and Habib
seem to be arguing. The room is strewn with pleasant, soft LEDs. But beyond that
there are only a plastic few chairs and a table, excluding Manoj's throne.

<!-- 
"One million is two-hundred grand a person. That's more than enough you greedy
bastard. You want anon to cancel the contract?" Habib says. Elliot grins his
signature grand smile. His cheeks normally contour the edges of his circular red
aviators, but he doesn't wear them indoors like a _freak_.

"It's chump-change compared to a few years on a mesh." Rafael responds.

"Alright then, why don't you go ahead and jack-in, huh?"

Rafael feels a lump in his throat. "I could say the same for you."

Habib snickers at Rafael's cognitive dissonance. "At least I accept that I don't
have an Interface. If I did have one, and if I had the knack for meshing, sure,
why not, I'd join a mesh, but I don't have either; I don't concern myself with
things that aren't gonna happen." -->

Elliot slides his boot off the cool concrete and lets it hang by his other
before hopping down onto the floor. The dark room he's in covers only a few
dozen square meters and the ceiling is short.

* * *



**Working blurbs:**

Best trope: character turns on lights, sees monster, turns lights off, walks away.

Hit LEFT RIGHT walls, CQC pistols

Him telling us his pseudonymous avatar is a corporate narrowed things down a
lot.

Anonymous hit set out on the host of the pseudonymous avatar. Smart contract has
messaging, file sharing, etc, with the person who bought the contract (in
reality the pseudonymous guy, who is looking for people using the contract on
himself as a test for them)

Model 49 is stolen by Habib, who runs a 24/7 hacking signal for really old cars
to take them. It silences the beep of unlocking the vehicle.






"I'll give your team 20 exaFLOPS." (could train GPT-4 in around ten days)

"Nothing," Manoj responses most deviously. (Sassy.)

Elliot, on the other hand, has his wireless ten-pound neural-modem in a
backpack, plugged into the back of his head; he's refused any enhancements
beyond the standard neural-interface, so he only has the standard connection
available. Unlike Manoj, 

I've been jerking it for years and I just need it to cum now.

He is scruffy and stubbly, with unkempt hair and round red-tinted glasses, which
he actually wears with prescription lenses despite the availability of cheap
neural-vision replacements. Manoj on the other hand spares no expense in
enhancing his body: neural-vision, synthetic tissue, hardware-based memory
failsafes, and everything in between.


Appearances:

* Elliot (double signal): 90s cool, black leather pants, red tinted circular
  aviators
* Manoj (timesharing/meshing):
* Aleks (overclocking):
* Anita (double signal):
* Rafael (no Interface): 
* Habib (no Interface):


Dream-like AI Minecraft

Manoj 

Someone gets melted in the molten metal at this forgotten server farm.

:3 (method) overwhelms enemy with the essence of bottoms.


* * *

Everyone gets dressed up in Inception-type suits.

<!-- Elliot and his crew have been hunkered down for the past few weeks, preparing
for an assignment. Equivalent to one hundred million liters; in fact, it is the
biggest gig in the last six months. Manoj Ramanathan and Elliot are in the Net,
working on confirming the target’s person one last time. Manoj lays unconscious,
elongated by his thin frame, in a cushioned reclining chair. His arm is plugged
in from his wrist to a “portable” neural-modem, his favorite one in fact, which
in reality weighs three hundred pounds. The tens of unorganized wires protruding
from his wrist resemble red muscle fibers.

Elliot, on the other hand, has his wireless ten-pound neural-modem in a
backpack, plugged into the back of his head; he’s refused any enhancements
beyond the standard neural-interface, so he only has the standard connection
available. Unlike Manoj, he relaxes sitting on the edge of the window, one leg
on it as he looks over the quiet inferno of the computers. He is scruffy and
stubbly, with unkempt hair and round red-tinted glasses, which he actually wears
with prescription lenses despite the availability of cheap neural-vision
replacements. Manoj on the other hand spares no expense in enhancing his body:
neural-vision, synthetic tissue, hardware-based memory failsafes, and everything
in between.

Out of the dark, Rafael Bosak reveals himself, his face dominated by thick
eyebrows and a messy beard, and begins talking, absentmindedly, “Elliot, get
your stuff, let's go; Habib’s your escort, you’ve got the comms with Manoj.
He’ll handle the rest on the Net end, don’t keep yourself too deep in now, just
enough to be there just in case.”

“Alright, nothing’s changed then? All good?”

“Yes. Say your goodbyes to this spot, it’s great—super fast too, but we’re gonna
move right after this.” He, too, looks out the window at the computers, humming
in their splendor. A large cable pierces through a hole in the concrete
conjoining into a single databus that runs to the core of the data center. Its
end split to all the Netists haphazardly, including Elliot’s wireless setup.
It’s the best connection to the Net possible.

Elliot gets up from the sill and walks over to Rafael, patting Manoj on the
shoulder, before moving towards the door of the maintenance room past Rafael.
Provisions litter the place, now long consumed and discarded in the small room.
On the stepped concrete floor, two others are busying themselves. Habib Khalil
awaits at the door as the two others arrive, his presence alone putting hair on
the chest of the rest: muscular, clean-shaven, and with styled hair; he holds
his rifle—an ancient design: single-shot and bolt-action with a lensed scope, no
computers or electronics anywhere. All three walk into the corporate maintenance
hallways of the data center, one of hundreds throughout Kernel handling the bulk
of computation for the Net. The hallways are plain gray, concrete, and
claustrophobic; dimly lit by faint red LED strips.

As the door closes, Anita Singh wishes good luck to them before she and Jordan
Hayes return to the Net, delegated to other, unrelated tasks. The door closes
with an airtight squeal and locks remotely as Rafael enters a passcode on his
tablet. After a few minutes walking down the twisting hallways, the three arrive
at their tunnel, hidden behind a tarp marked “caution”, surrounded by cones and
tape. No one wanders these halls, except maybe every fifty-or-so years. The
three are quiet with anticipation, crawling out of the small tunnel to the
larger tunnel of Kernel’s ventilation system, which resides above most server
rooms. Near the tunnel’s exit is a ladder leading out to the alley above.

The three men push the man-hole cover aside and climb out into the zig-zagging
alleyways of Lower Kans, a few hundred feet from a small arterial road. Rafael’s
car is about a mile away from the tunnel, parked next to a small Kernelese
restaurant which serves only local, hydroponically grown produce at a steep
premium. The car is tan colored, small, and mostly cheap plastic. Most people in
Lower Kans and the nearby districts travel by metro or hydrogen scooters.

“1021 West Morley, Kans,” Rafael says, “it’s a forty-five minute drive from
here.” He reaches into his pocket to grab his tablet again, unlocking his car
and vanguarding the route.

“From all we’ve gathered, he has no enhancements beyond the standard
neural-interface, right? An old air-powered shot will do the trick, silent too,”
Habib states rhetorically, now in the car’s dusty interior, cleaning his rifle
excessively and loading an air-cartridge bullet. The car moves silently, powered
by hydrogen, but it vibrates and shows its age nevertheless. It’s make,
disintegrated during the Great Data War; it’s model, out of production for at
least one-hundred years.

“You only get one shot, Habib, make it count. Manoj and Elliot have been working
on this for four weeks now,” Rafael says, while waving his hand to the back seat
where Habib sits. He drives through the narrow streets of Lower Kans, where he
and the others have been for some weeks.

“Yes yes,” Habib continues cleaning his rifle.

The streets are dusty like the car, and near the outskirts of Kans, the
buildings are short, no more than five stories, all plain, concrete, and sandy
in color. Ancient cellular spires litter the rooftops, and small
hydrogen-powered scooters litter shop fronts and residences. The streets are
likewise packed with honking scooters. Wires criss-cross between buildings, some
running underground towards the Net’s infrastructure. Out of all the districts
in the city of Kernel, Kans is the most populous, mostly because of the
district’s center where the heart of the city lies. West Morley resides in this
core, affluent and glittery.

“You guys should visit Herresh! Lower Kans basically looks like it nowadays,
although we are on the outskirts of the district,” Rafael jokes. He was born in
Herresh—a seemingly permanent refugee camp formed after the Great Data War—and
was never given a neural-interface before birth. Because of this, he resents his
parents, becoming a devout Dataist, even after the actions and against the final
wishes of his grandfather, Aleks Bosak.

“Don’t go on about your whole spiel about Dataism, Rafael,” Elliot looks out his
window to his right and sees some people playing with a ball, seemingly
un-interfaced, “Europe was glassed a hundred years ago, and the Dataists caused
it as far as I’m concerned,” Elliot says this to annoy the ideologue, not
actually caring initially.

“Your capacity for nuance amazes me, Elliot,” Rafael says, gripping the wheel
tighter, “now, our corporate target you can agree must go, correct?”

“Of course, the rich bozo just acquired half the Net infrastructure in Kans; and
we’re being paid handsomely by Technica anyways. We get to keep the datakeys
too, per the contract. Weird, but I guess they see taking out Vue as more
important than getting back the stuff he took, which wasn’t more than a few
small load-bearing data centers, I’m pretty sure.” The car pulls around a
corner, lit by the dim red glow of the street lights just awakening as the sun
sets. “We can of course just keep the datakeys for ourselves. I’d prefer to
actually keep them (and I bet everyone else too), but I know you wouldn’t allow
that, mister righteous one.”

From the backseat, Habib retorts, “And what would you have us do with them,
Elliot? Just turn the servers into our personal fief? Of course you would—the
consequences of not holding yourself accountable.” Habib shares many views with
Rafael, despite not being a Netist like Elliot and Manoj; and Anita, although
she is still new to the crew. Rafael and Habib both consider themselves
Dataists.

“I’d be a benevolent dictator.” Elliot says half joking.

“Oh really,” Habib laughs at this, “so what about the other guy, would he not be
considered such?”

Elliot continues with conviction this time, ironically, “No, and we would be
able to accomplish a significant amount with complete control: first, with
control over the infrastructure exclusively, we could organize expansion
projects easily. Just think about where we were, that corporate load-bearing
data center. Could someone have built that without exclusive control over its
datakeys? Most certainly not. Second, who would we even give the datakeys to?
Just random people on the Net, over itself; or would we distribute them
ourselves in reality. Third, the money we could make with the datakeys could be
used to build up the Net, and it would be a lot more than if we just gave them
away to random people without the capacity to make that much money.

“Tell me what good have the Dataists done in the quest for the liberation of the
Net? The Great Data War? A glassed Europe? Rafael would know, and the ‘data’ is
already free now, and wasn’t that the primary mission of the Dataists? I can go
to any library server and find any text, film, photo, schematic, die, or
whatever instantly, and with no restrictions, per international law, itself
formed from your compromise with the Anti-Dataist corporations and so on: to let
them keep control over the infrastructure in exchange for them giving up their
mass cold-storage projects. What’ve we done concerning the Net to hold ourselves
with such high regard—so morally righteous?”

Habib continues before Rafael can interject. “The Dataists have always believed
in both data freedom and non-corporate control over the Net. You’ve failed to
explain how your control would differ at all from his. What stops him from being
so benevolent like you? If we can so easily be as such, then why not try to
convince him to act as such? No, the idea of a ‘benevolent dictator’ means
putting the Net in the hands of someone you must trust, and I’d prefer to have
it so no one person has the capacity to control everything.”

“You guys are gonna end up glassing the rest of the world ignoring compromise
like this. Our small actions, of course, don’t add up to much; and they're at
the behest of clients, and not our personal convictions. But if you Dataists
keep this up, ignoring international treaties, it’s gonna go that way.” As
Elliot says this, in the back of his mind, like a morning dream, Manoj tells him
to shut up. Manoj does not consider himself a devout Dataist, similar to Elliot
and the rest of the crew. “Alright, enough talk, Manoj’s harassing me. Back to
the job then; damn corporate Cipherists. Just a big waste of time really, but
that’s the consequence of a peacetime Cipher.”

“I’d rather have a low fry rate than open warfare.” Rafael says, Habib nodding
in agreement.

“Of course, but it’s still a pain when all these corporate types take it as an
opportunity to flaunt themselves on the Net, risk free. Nowadays, it’s easier to
employ Habib’s skills than to get a Netist to unmask a Cipher user and fry
them.”

“Yeah,” Habib says, shifting himself to the middle seat while straining against
his seat-belt, “—unfortunate, really. My grandparents always talked about how
when they were growing up, the Netists who created the Cipher forced millions of
civilians to use it during the war to increase the chance of any one random fry
killing a civilian. Their whole town was basically forced to connect to the Net
by Cipher, kept there by a few armed guards—those of course being Anti-Dataist
scum, although I will admit the Dataists definitely aren’t perfect in that
regard. It wasn’t important what they did on the Net, just that they were part
of the Cipher’s pool. But now the civilians using the Cipher are using it
voluntarily, seemingly—which of course results in the super low termination rate
we see today.” Habib leans forward between the two front car seats, his arms
relaxed on the backs of each chair.

“It’s like 0.1 percent yearly right now, I’m pretty sure. Manoj?” Elliot says
over the Net and outloud, preparing to echo the response to Rafael and Habib.

“Something like that,” Manoj says while talking with Adrian Vue, the target.
Elliot isn’t deep in, so he isn’t really part of the conversation with either of
them in the Net. 

“Adrian? I bet you check often, being that you’re corporate yourself. You’ve
gotta make sure it's actually worth it, valuing your life as much as you. On the
other hand, me and Apollo are more concerned with anonymity of course, and it’s
probably safer than connecting without the Cipher anyways.”

“Yeah, I checked this morning and it was something like 0.102 percent. My
Netists all tell me that my chances of getting fried would be higher if I
connected without it. Anyways, I will say it’s quite rare to find someone who
even knows what chess is, let-alone how to play. Honestly, you’re quite terrible
at it. It amazes me that you subject yourself to losing against me over and
over. I’m fairly certain you have some kind of offer you’d like to make with me,
we’ve been meeting over the Net every-once-in-awhile for the past few weeks. You
can stop buttering me up now, what’s the offer?”

Elliot, Manoj, and Adrian all use the Cipher, which makes frying someone over
the Net impossible, as the Cipher scrambles its users amongst themselves.
Basically, each user connects to the Net through another user’s host—their
neural-interface basically, and vice versa, giving up their own host to another
random user. So, terminating someone’s host over the Net, whose signal is using
the Cipher, will result in the death of a random user, and not the intended
target.

“I’m probably the best chess player you’ll ever find nowadays, unfortunately;
but yes, we have been buttering you up. I was about to tell you the offer too,
so here it is I guess: Before Technica fled the load-bearing data centers, I’m
guessing they DRMed most of the good non-server based defensive programs still
leftover on—”

“Wow,” Adrian interrupts, looking over at a relaxing figure on a virtual leather
couch: Elliot’s current pseudonymous signal, Apollo, “you’re double-signal
friend here is basically just dozing off here, what’s he up to in reality?” All
three are hanging out on a classy server owned by the Kans municipal government,
with swirling whisky, cigars, and pretentious novels. The ceilings of the
virtual environment seem to pierce through clouds, and plenty of tables cover
the red woolen carpet. Behind Adrian is an ornate bar, normally empty on
weekdays, which seems to extend miles.

Since the server is owned by the municipality, user’s hosts are well protected
from any malicious actors. In comparison to some of the underground
servers—where connecting via the Cipher is basically a must—most users on the
municipal servers connect with their actual hosts. The municipal servers are
used mostly for data storage and simple interactions of the Net, nothing like
the awesome experiences facilitated elsewhere, often on less cautious servers.
Most school, business, or other servers fall under corporate control, with
municipal ownership amounting to very little of the Net. However, compared to
the rest of the Net, despite their lack of functionality, they are generally the
most reliable for simple person-to-person communication.

“Oh, right now he’s just doing some household chores and stuff I bet.
Double-signals really can’t keep themselves invested in anything.”

“I heard that!” Elliot says to Manoj, annoyed. “Just remember that I’m a pretty
lossy double-signal to begin with, there’re plenty of good ones out there. You
have no experience of keeping yourself in the Net and reality at the same time,
so trust me, it’s hard.”

“I remember you had the funniest way of describing the feeling, what was it? Ah,
yes! You said it was like drunk driving as you daydream about drunk driving.”
Adrian laughs at Manoj’s comment, putting a virtual cigar between his lips. His
signal looks identical to him, as he only uses the Cipher for protection and not
anonymity.

“Return to convo. on DRMed programs somehow

Too much information is dumped here. Spread it out more with dialogue, including
descriptions of inner Kans as our crew arrives at Adrian Vue's safe house (move
some of the reveal about the target to an early part). Maybe move the
explanation of the Cipher to later, when needed to explain why Adrian Vue wasn't
just taken out over the Net:

Elliot and Manoj have never connected to the Net without using the Cipher—both
referring to themselves as Cipherists, but Anita is a bit disturbed by it, not
so much to call herself a Anti-Cipherist however. Giving up your host to another
is, to some, equivalent to putting your life into the hands of the Cipher. Many
are disturbed to almost a reverent degree by this selling of the soul, often
referred to as Anti-Cipherists, many simply because of its hand in the
escalation of the Great Data War. Currently connected to the Net, the corporate
client uses the Cipher as well to protect himself from host termination. Given
that the Cipher’s termination rate is only around 0.1 percent per year at the
moment, a relatively low rate in comparison to the past few years, its use has
exploded to non-criminals and the like, simply wanting to ensure their
connections to the Net are better protected.

Despite weeks of effort surveilling the target in the Net, his actual host—used
by some other random signal—has not been found. Reluctantly, Habib’s skills have
become necessary. Not being able to unmask his actual host on the Net, it was
easier to simply get him to spill the location of his safe house, where he has
resided since his acquisition of Technica’s largest Kans datacenter. This
acquisition took place a few months ago during a small skirmish above the
datacenter between a few hundred armed corporate forces of Technica and the
personal mercenaries of the current target, Adrian Vue. Cobalt Saber was
contracted to kill Adrian Vue by Technica, making the Dataist’s of the group
hypocritics, really.

Going through lower Kans, as it’s called, Rafael navigates the erratic unmarked
streets towards central Kans, where the target lives. As the car approaches,
buildings grow taller and more metallic, chrome and glossy. The silver buildings
turn on dim, expansive flood lights for the night. The cacophony of the city
grows with the thousands of pedestrians in the city growing nearer. Edges are
smoothed and modern, fitting with the uniform silver. Streets expand to
multi-lane roads, and they begin to stack themselves, no more than three or four
layers though.

“Our target’s little ‘incident’ ” -->
