
Word so unpronounceable it is deadly.

My method uses the concept of queerness as a conduit!

Can't look hurt when shopping, lest the megacorp face rec price gouge me.
Everyone paranoid, black mirror social media type shopping.

Migration of _those_ fucking scooters

Megacorps fight for control of nuclear power planets to run AI datacenters.

Ai suicide drones from mystery factories

Sand showers, other no water things

Sonja


Language has 42 dimensions

https://www.reddit.com/r/196/comments/1g1lyv5/rule/

https://preview.redd.it/engines-rule-v0-3o2ftr1sbaud1.jpeg?auto=webp&s=d4ce09b52851f93c927e98e74c05993273eb8891


Zhihao created the Cipher.


Sardines plane of Interfaced people

Immune system esque Interface growth with person over time

Meat is more expensive, luxury

"this vexes me" House MD reference


Bangladesh trash landscape

Overexerting your data rate leads to instant (deadly) signal severance. This is
what happens in the last stand of runners in the Matrix.



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_independently_targetable_reentry_vehicle#/media/File:Minuteman_III_MIRV_path.svg

https://preview.redd.it/4090-vs-brain-v0-ye6rvsolalqd1.jpeg?width=1080&crop=smart&auto=webp&s=8c32bc155415ee55c5d964f3240825243d329e1a


AI Hypercomputer


Adam Task compute allocation:
    90% - Signal processes (8-bit TPU)
    5% - Fee
    5% - Environment compute (double-precision floats)


The reason all avatars in the Matrix are humanoid is because of the requirements
set in place by the Adam Task. Signals, which the Adam Task handles, are the I/O
of the host; it follows that to create the signal _in the first place_ requires
an entity of similar likeness to what normally creates the "organic signal". But
the host can withstand a certain level of difference, which allows for the
famous pseudonym and anonymity of the Cipher. A virtual "spirit" avatar can be
created to embody the signal while the "actual" avatar is non-humanoid, but
controlling this "actual" avatar is no different from controlling a simulated
robot in the Matrix. "Spirit" avatars do not exist as a default protocol in
Program Space, making invisibility without a dedicated Method impossible. (This
invisibility comes from having a "spirit" avatar without an "actual" avatar.)


Elliot: "That PhD's carefully constructed, personalized, tailored, statically
model for host unmasking, which takes in whatever the fuck and spits out some ID
number, so nothing compared to my skills."


Overlooking Kernel City at night from afar on a hill in an open glass modern
home. To discuss the last great development of humankind caused by capitalism, a
last, beautiful death spasm of capitalism.


AI Cold War: Traveler at the top.

Softwar: War over **nebulous** efficiency in software, who has the most
efficient software

Hardwar: War over **finite** hardware

Hosts of humans is monolithic unlike vhosts of ACs which are made of millions of
organs. But, really, don't human hosts also have millions of neural organs? They
are just *something.*


Signals are two parts: 1 and 0

Matrix has concepts programmatically expressed unlike reality, allowing for
conceptualization methods.

I use the Matrix as a conduit for my conceptualization. I feel no fear! I feel
no hunger! Program -> Matrix Conduit -> Signal's concepts programatically
expressed by the Matrix!

Fire walls: exist in Userland to filter out known harmful programs for
connecting users. (Not in Program Space, although rate limit is.)


Rate limit changes? Effected by enemy Methods? What happens at 0 GB/s.

Adam Task

Basic signal BCI takes 90% of computation. Runs distributed on Adam Task, since
all brains share about 90% of the same AI model.

Program Space is a place that loads with no route to Userland picked. Userland
is self-hosted?

Userland pays fee to use the Adam Task signals pool. Why control Program Space?!

The reason wireless jacks are unpopular among professionals is that someone can
break the connection easily, causing damage, whereas a wired one can be locked
in place with a key, to prevent accident disconnection, etc.


Mag Dump: Unlike traditional firearm Methods, my Mag Dump doesn't have any
memory leakage. Normally, the projectiles fired persist after stopping, taking
up valuable space in the rate limit. Reloading is then a method to clear this
buffer. My system, however, is a cyclic list of projectiles: the simulation
deals with them in a set list of 6, where I shift the list forward, obliterating
one bullet and creating a new one. This isn't a novel concept, and many weapons
use this system --- where the firerate is low but there is no need to reload ---
instead of the buffer-reloading method --- where the firerate is high but needs
reloads --- (both, in their traditional implementations, offer their own
benefits and consequences), but I have developed an algorithm, which I keep a
secret, to speed up this shifting function. I get the best of both worlds!


https://github.com/OpenInterpreter/open-interpreter


Program Space has no restriction on overclocking. Homeless put in low quality
cryobeds to run them at a high speed for a short time till they die.



**jaa korraks vait @ modest by default - The Curse of Colonialism**




"Wise up and serve cunt."


https://preview.redd.it/day-off-alone-at-home-v0-r3j05qkxxt1e1.jpeg?auto=webp&s=45cd635ddab7dc2528a41a1fe29a15e8daebe387


Idea for the Traveler: When it arrives at a planet, its goal is not to help or
hurt the people. It only wants to record the civilization. This is why the
Traveler, with ihsotas, created the Matrix: to record humanity and store it.
Then the Traveler goes on as an archive of billions of civilizations to the next
ones, archiving more and more. This is my explanation for why the Traveler
hides: it doesn't want to disturb the civilizations it records.



Pie hole memory: AI runs all possibilities every time. Its linear. Humans are dynamical. I only turn on those neurons when needed.


Method: the World: I extrabolate the output of my Signal a few second until the
simulation breaks down, needing my dynamic, cybernetic input from my host. This
extrapolation is overclocked beyond the limit for hatching by millions, so I
freeze time.


For my book I have the two main parrellel narratives:

1) The more techy mystery story with the Cipherists as they try to uncover the
   secret of who ihsotas is (directly in the aftermath of the war)

2) The more poltical war story with the Datists and fighting in the Matrix
   (right after the first Interfaced people turn 18 [the age metaphor is
   obvious])

For the 2nd, should I have a general theme be a constant retreat? In a lot of
war movies and stuff it's always one side winning against the other or something
like All Quiet on the Western Front - just a machine of death. The first type
doesn't comment on anything relavent to what I'm thinking about. The second is a
comment on war in general, which can be understand as a critique of imperialism
by monopoly capitalist nations, of course.

But a constant retreat (by the Datists, the good guys) and scramble to gain some
semblance of victory sounds interesting. I basically follow a failed revolution,
and can comment on it from that perspective. The CDO, Chinese Datist
Organization, continues after the end as a comment on Maoist or something like
that; most Datists have lost the fundemental tenets of revolution, an obvious
metaphor, and that will be what I can comment on. The war ends in an instant
regardless due to the Cipher, which is basically as if God intervened and took
all the soliders' guns away. (The Cipher is the transition in the story from
politics to technology. I don't know yet what it alludes to.)



Signal severance creates a pseudo-signal which can be run 30 secs past death
(post-run). My Method, Seg Fault! It projects an area where host terminations
don't activate the garbage collector. I collect the severed signals instead!
They aren't deleted like normal!

Exit code following host termination marks the severed signal with how its host
died. This is normally the thing the garbage collector looks for when going to
delete excess signals.


Caustics of light weave in-and-out of Kernel's buildings.


Helicopter blades sparking in sandstorm while landing




- needle monkey math rocket
- they/them pussy atomic, Simon popcorn made kernel, interface 0
- and the, my experiment, which I looked at all my life, looked back
- 4D a method for punching through things







Every time you disconnect, your signal is obliterated by the Garbage Collector.




- In my mind, the fake senerios where I talk with fake versions of people are in
  reality the most substantial form of communication with yourself, devoid of
  the conscious awareness of your inner monologue.
- The Traveler is the universal intelligence. It evolves in time, where not in
  space, and space, where not in time. It permeates space and time, as the
  collection at any time spatially and as the instance at any space temporally.




MANIFOLD MANIPULATION:

"Just like how you can look at a 3D plot and find the minimum, I (my "cybernetic
model") can look at my model's trillion dimensional surfaces and find the
minimums easily as a conscious and non-stochastic process."

Avatars in the Matrix act like ghosts which surrond an invisible copy of your
own body, because the mind is inextricably linked to the body.

The cybernetic model is the part of a multi-organ AC which manages the changing
minimums of each organ. It is what imbues memory. The incoming data is fed back
into the models by the cybernetic model which then manipulates the manifold
based on a more abstract, individual identity of the originating cybernetic
model.

"I started out pretrained on the H15 dataset for standard 60 organ ACs. I guess
that explains a lot about my specialities and stuff. I'm good at combat, you
know. That's really ingrained in me. Its my nature. I my cybernetic model has
given my around 8k times the H15 in volume, so I like gardening and stuff now.
My nurture, I guess."


Technical Minecraft vs. Source Engine Weirdness

pool under floor to drown people. bodies left to collect and rot for next victim.


load prev interface copies, diff ages, multiple people?






