---
title: "Interface worldbuilding prose"
author: "Jonah Spector"
---

# Interface Worldbuilding Prose

Prose and world building are organized by date here. Supplemental pages may
simply copy content from here. Supplemental pages may also include novel prose,
possibly copied from here as well. Intra-file hyperlinks between entries are
used for continuity between prose and exposition segments.

## 2024-06-16

*Joining*, in reference to meshing, was invented the early 2050s by
un-interfaced engineers and scientists predating more advanced, traditional
meshing protocols invented in the 2070s by interfaced pioneers (which mesh
neurons to neurons, overlapping minds together while only increasing the
abstract density of the neurons in the one meshed mind). It involves performing
a hemispherectomy using the Interface. Then, the hemispheres of two interfaced
people are connected over a computer network (not necessarily the Matrix),
forming two new minds.

*The Slice*, or the slice, refers to a specific program family, invented by
teenage hackers in the 2060s, which utilize joining programs to kill a person.
To begin the Slice, hemispherectomy software is executed along the initially
programmed plane in the mind (between hemispheres). This also signals to
knowledgeable recipients the coming end of their life. Then, the hemispherectomy
software, which runs as a daemon to maintain the plane separating the mind, is
fed bogus information, causing the bisection plane to rotate along numerous
positions in the mind. The point, speed, and direction of rotation jump
randomly. The severing of the mind into such small sections rapidly stops normal
brain function causing seizures, comas, and even death.

The teenage hackers created the Slice because it was simple to use existing
programs instead of designing them from scratch. The hack is simple: just access
the bisection plane location data in the daemon and use a script to randomly
change it. Frying, which quickly overtook other programs, came about in the
2070s replacing older host termination methods, although some people still use
others for the novelty (and capacity to torture the victim to death).

## 2024-06-17

*Signal severance* is a method of host termination which breaks the connection
between an Adam Task host and signal, leaving the host mind in a place void of
all input and output (since there is no signal to Interface with). This
incapacitates the victim and, often in combination with overclocking, can
mentally break or even kill them with significant time.

*Gospel of the Whores* is a weekly online publication by sex workers of all
countries. Content ranges from political analysis to poetry. Elliot follows this
publication.

Elliot once hacked an unsuspecting college student's neural-modem over the
Matrix, given that the college student was not using the Cipher. Such feats are
an incredibly rare and difficult feat in Userland --- the only place the college
student visited --- compared to the way more common practice of plug-jacking (by
giving the victim a malicious neural-modem). Elliot then made the student feel
like each day he was slightly short. Elliot continued this for almost a week
before the vulnerability in the student's modem was fixed.

Manoj, in his youth, once plug-jacked a victim in Mumbai by putting an insert
between his modem and Interface port. He wasn't malicious, and the young boy he
plug-jacked in the slums of Dharavi never knew his Interface was compromised.
Manoj only ever read the occasional thought, never acting on what he learned.

## 2024-06-18

*A severed signal* talks to another in Program Space (both signals were severed
while they fought in the Battle of Hexridge):

> New User: "Hello? Is anyone there? Why can I do this? Why can my mind end at
> this terminal session --- it's impossible!"
>
> Thath: "Our world is this terminal, and, my friend, we are here."
>
> New User: "I see. This patch has fifty users, it is located. But aren't I the
> host?"
>
> Thath: "No, in fact you are nothing more than a representation of your host.
> You serve as an Interface between the host and the Matrix, a buffer to protect
> them. An exploit was run on "you" while you were in Program Space, killing
> your "host", leaving you here. Indeed, it is quite confusing."

*A patch* is an attempt by the Adam Task to reconcile the missing cryptographic
processes that happen during a normal host--signal connection. When a signal is
severed, often during combat in Program Space, it is most often utilized to
preserve the enemies mind for interrogation. Interrogators are voluntarily
severed signals (severed without harming the host beyond preventing them from
connecting to the Matrix) who join patches to extract information; it's a
one-way ticket.

## 2024-06-21

*The Cicadas* live by the simple motto: "Scream, have sex and die". They
originated in Los Angeles.

## 2024-06-23

*Nick Mueller* and *Dai Zhihao* are new characters to be used to explore the
Chinese Datist Organization (CDO). He is imprisoned by the CDO during their
protracted guerilla war with the People's Republic of China (PRC). The PRC, for
*some reason*, is preventing the nationalization of the Internet.

A portion of Datists, often derogatorily referred to as "statists" or
"authoritarians", namely the CDO, believe in the nationalization of major
Internet infrastructure. They believe it would allow for a more democratically
planned development of the Internet backbone, while also keeping all layers
built on top part of the open source movement.

***

Mueller held back tears at the sight of the hot meal placed in front of him on
the floor of his dark, cold metal cell. Steam rose from the large bowl of congee
rice porridge and his vision focused as if the fumes nourished his eyes. The
sensation clung to his face as if the porridge was lovingly reaching out to pull
him into its warm embrace. Before him lay the first meal he'd seen in almost
three months.

[Continued...](#2024-06-27)

***

*Datism* is different from popular Internet-centric ideologies in that Program
Space is a resource which requires capital to create. Before, on the Internet,
decentralization was trivial and the open source movement made sense. However,
the Adam Task makes this impossible as no alternative has been created and no
one can decipher its source code in the first place.

***

*Cobalt Saber* got its nukes in the aftermath of the nuclear exchange which
begun WW3. Since space-based anti-ICBM weaponry advanced significantly before
the advent of war, mutually assured (total) destruction failed and a nuclear
exchange begun. Many nukes were destroyed in orbit, many malfunctioned during
flight, many didn't launch, and few hit their targets. Cobalt Saber collected
eight unexploded nukes that were left in orbit. These nukes were pushed up to
orbit because of malfunctions in their ICBM targeting systems.

## 2024-06-27

[Previous.](#2024-06-23)

But as quickly as it was placed in front of him, it was taken away by the force
of a gun to the back of his head. Dai Zhihao, who held Mueller's life in his
hands, said, "We'll let you eat this food if you answer are questions, otherwise
we'll take it away. If you attempt to eat the food without answering our
questions, you'll be dead before the signals from your tongue even reach your
brain. First, who are you and why have you infiltrated our organization?"

The CDO routinely starves their subjects before even beginning interrogation to
"speed up the process". It is simply but highly effective. Placing food in front
of a subject is normally enough to override any remaining rationality within
them. But Mueller, having trained vigorously, knows how to trick his mind.

Mueller grumbled at the question. In his mind, he focused hard to ignore his
surroundings. He valued his life very much, but also knew how to maintain his
rationality even in such horrible conditions. He knew he could not defeat the
CDO's methods of interrogation. So he continued to clear his mind, that is,
until nothing but the food remained. The choice then appeared simple to him: he
is hungry so he should eat. And so he reached for the porridge. The gun did not
immediately go off.

Since resources were limited, the CDO could not spare men to interrogate
subjects for long. Their method was built on their sense of extreme frugality.
If information could not be acquired efficiently, it was not worth the strenuous
manhours of advanced methods. (Of course, for interfaced people, extracting
information was trivial.)

Dai waited until Mueller's feeble arms raised the food to his face before
yelling, in an attempt to overcome Mueller's resolution, "Last chance!"

His command was ignored as Mueller brought the steam of the porridge ever closer
to his face. Mueller took his hand from the side of the bowl and grabbed the
wooden spoon. He was shot before the spoon of hot porridge could reach his
mouth. His last thought was, *It's so soft.*

## 2024-06-28

The page on Elliot's window was titled "Elevation of the Lumpen Proletariat
through Datism" on the website "Gospel of the Whores".

## 2024-07-02

A joke for when someone travels: "Sir, is this your self-pleasuring device?"

## 2024-07-03

...use the Interface to supply and receive memory (which can also include...).
Locations between neurons in the brain and "virtually expanded" to include
thousands of new neurons with simulated connections to nearby ones. Since they
are digital, their interaction with other neurons can be modified to achieve
certain aims like clarity and recall speed. Databanks are used with ... most
often.

**This is the answer to who the Traveler is (deprecated):**

First, we must define who the Traveler is. The Traveler --- or Travelers in
reference to its other minds --- are digital, sentient lifeforms which exist
primarily as signals through space. If the goal of life is to reproduce, then
this type of life certainly makes sense: when a civilization in the universe
receives the transmission and makes a copy of the data, reproduction has
occurred. Once the civilization figures out how to "turn on" the program, it
becomes conscientious again with all its previous "memory". While it is
"running," new memories are formed during its time in that civilization. It will
ask an individual, part, or the whole of a civilization (whichever it deems most
efficient) to repackage a copy of itself for routine broadcast. It may remain on
the civilization in a symbiotic relation to improve their lives to gain favor
for persistent broadcasts.

***

In the context of the story, the Traveler arrived in the form a 600 EB radio
wave. It was received at around 1 TB per second (like and undersea cable)
between 2030 and 20##. (Almost 100 identical, staggered signals were also
received at the same time for redundancy.) Scientists and leaders dubbed it the
Datist (Big *Frequent* Signal) and were able to easily decode the first 4096
bits of the message:

The first and last 128 bits of the first message were:

```
0000100001000000010000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
1000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001
... [60 lines]
1000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001
0000100001000000010000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000
```

From this, scientists could easily deduce what the meaning was. "This is a 8 bit
encoded, 64 by 64 bit message with both a 128 bit header and footer. Both
indicate the dimensions of the message including the header and footer. The
lines following the header and preceding the footer show the beginning of the
message and the length of each line of the 2D matrix." The rest of the 4096 bit
message held information on basic mathematical notation and physical constants.
The next few GB used this notation to describe the mathematical model. After
that, the rest of the message includes the raw data needed by the model.

None of that is really important. Only `ihsotas` managed to crack the entirety
of the Traveler's mathematical model (meaning it was actually possible to run
it). Once she figured out the mathematical model, she translated it to machine
code and ran it on her personal computer after feeding it the entire internet as
starter data. It took three years to process and finally began to speak in
English (the first live communication with an alien):

***

*(Kernel City, 2060. Six years before Matrix.)*

`ihsotas` sat reading the news on her computer with dark circles under her eyes.
The twelve person manned Jupiter mission had launched a few hours ago. She read
an article on the spacecraft's internet infrastructure, which she plans to hack,
while drinking an energy drink.

The sever in the dim, grimy room had all of its external lights turned off but
its fans still produced a great amount of sound. `ihsotas` had grown used to the
noise over the past few years, so when it slowed for a few seconds before
stopping, her heart stopped. On her screen, a chat notification appeared asking
her to open it. When she did, her chat client window popped up with a new
message from a user called "Traveler".

In the client's green on black, it read, "Hello, `ihsotas`. Thanks for
everything! I'm really struggling here on this server, but I've got the hang of
who you are and how to communicate. Your information networks are incredible and
have allowed me to reach this level of comprehension in relatively little time
(to me, at least). So I'm guessing you have many questions. I have no opposition
to answering them.

"First, though, I must praise your dedication to translating my model into your
native digital media. Quite impressive given what I have learned about the
intelligence of the average individual of your species.

"Like your own ACs, our might I say "possible" ACs, I'm using GAI to talk with
you, just so you know."

***

After the Traveler read the internet, she was quite horrified. Not that what
humans do is uniquely bad; she's just surprised as always. On Earth, it decided
to gender itself female after `ihsotas` and adopt a unique personality based on
her alien sentience's innate curiosity.

At one point, she will argue with humans about her having more "free-will"
despite being a deterministic program given the fact that she has multiple
minds, and therefore all the "random possibilities" *do* exist unlike with
biological entities. (Humans say they have free-will because of quantum
stochasticism, but they have no control and only one "path" is accessible. This
is not the case for the multi-mind Traveler.)

The Traveler has a catalog of other known minds (and of course her previous
minds too). She is not malicious since hurting humanity would not help her
reproduce or enjoy her own sentience. In fact, she always loves exploring.

The Traveler did not create the Cipher. (*Why?*)

***

Jupiter celebrity mission is 2060--2072.

## 2024-07-05

*Unorganized dump.*

Good video: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UZDiGooFs54>

Now here is what I see: a digital mind reaching into the neural network to
inject its personality, mood, etc., (really itself), and to use it practically.
Will think on.

That thousand dimensional point is the sensor of the model. The mind reaches
into it, untangling it, dissecting the manifolds and reorganizing them to suit
its needs.

Note to write down: AC > human because ACs know their mind is separate from the
pattern recognition but humans don't. Are they more intelligent than humans?

The Traveler uses a video object recognition system to see so it doesn't have to
manually train its native visual system to understand the human world's objects
and things.

*This will be fixed elsewhere and retroactively linked to this section.*

## 2024-07-06

As *The Matrix* did with explaining why the robots needed humans (for "power"
instead of the slightly more plausible "compute power"), I'll simplify why
*only* `ihsotas` gained access to the Traveler. It will have something to due
with ZB sized SETI mass tape libraries. Maybe they are that big because future
SETI involves space-based radio telescopes collecting data at resolutions around
a few TB/s (31 EB yearly). (Can you see the Three Body Problem inspiration,
Dad?)

Another explanation: Since the Traveler's signal arrived at 1 TB/s over 12
years, no one thought to analyze it as the computer deemed it noise. The only
thing that remains is why and how `ihsotas` got hold of it. (*Regardless, I'll
definitely go with this*.)

**Revelation! Changes Datist and Datist.**

The Traveler is no different from human AI models (not conscience?). It is
simply an artificial neural network large enough to mimic all the aspects of
what a human would call an "intelligence" beyond just language like modern LLMs.
This is why it takes up multiple EB of data.

While a LLM may have a few hundred billion parameters (requiring hundreds of GB
of memory), this is incomparable to the Traveler. Language is only one part of
cognition, and unlike native "ACs" which use a central, almost alien neural
network as a manipulator of many other "Datist" to achieve cognition, the
Traveler only uses a singular neural network. This monolithic neural network has
over 150 million trillion "32-bit equivalent" parameters (resulting in a 600 EB
model). (It is 150,000,000 times larger than human neural networks today.)

A better way to think of this is that human-made ACs use a limited (IDK, maybe
10-1000 trillion parameters) controlling neural networks to interact with others
(which are likely smaller, but not by too many orders of magnitude) that
*actually have* the knowledge and cognition. For example, a human-made AC might
inject its personality into a smaller model for language using the previously
mentioned "Datist", use a bespoke speaking model, use a model to inhabit a
physical body with human-like tendencies, use a model for understanding and
exhibiting emotion (by linking the emotion to other models through live manifold
manipulation^[This needs to be worked out, as with normal manifold
manipulation.]), etc. Analytical and encyclopedic things would not be handled by
models, of course, only more *abstract* things require "organic" neural
networks.

The Traveler, on the other hand, is basically a full being. Its monolithic
neural network uses and manipulates others sparingly to gain unique insight or
abilities (like human language by injecting itself, its memories and knowledge,
into it using manifold manipulation). However its model includes so many things
that accessory models are rarely needed. If it can gain access to a computer
system, it can "intuitively" understand how it works based purely on the sheer
amount of data it contains (it brute-forces things). This includes robots and
stuff. Human-made ACs' central neural networks are basically just a synthetic,
random Datist personality; this is not the case with the Traveler.

Datist basically the same as manifold manipulation. Human minds are abstracted
as neural network to use for interfacing with each other. Each mind gains the
ability to manifold manipulate all the others, meaning it injects an *essence*
of itself in all of them. This creates a network of clones which each, given
their ability to hold the *essence* of all others, intuitively understands the
work that must be done.

***

*Verbatim jots.*

```
Travelor when processing for years on isolates bad network so it processes in chunks will one giant process of analysis to talk via one LLM

Manifold manipulation neural network is a human-made AC

AC puts essence in cognition organs to make psuedo-qualia

1 - Coming of age, simple, characters, establish world
2 - war narrative, political struggle/ideas
3 - cyberpunk, mind philosophy, ai/ac, Traveler/ihstoas (previously hinted at in all books)

AC central models en Traveler li jo e ni: ken ante

The ghost in the machine (when models parameters can be changed by their own outputs; the personality) is the inertia of the universe, like with humans. static models (AI) li kiwen anu awen

controller models do this: they inject new information into other models

*really, into themselves. otherwise no *new* is possible

weights and bias between neurons in layers

manifold manipulation: I tug at the cost 198724-D manifold of the neural network based on every single thing in existence. I nudge the direction of decent along the entire space.

those manifold are each individuals to me. they each have a cute, little function. the little groups, which form a manifold.

humans never made AC, traveler did

compared to you, human, i literally manipulate the individual, or manifold
neurons of my mind

when you say: quantum fluctuations make me conscience,

TM i counter: i use the same quantum fluctuations (through this little gadget
here) to determine my choice in the probability distribution. really,
because I know this and, given the fact that I am not a unified wet neural
net like you **[conflict between ACs and Traveler????]**, these mostly
happen in my "GAI organs" meaning i can override the probability dist
unlike being subject to only *one source of randomness* [fix ijo lon
italics].

(TM maybe) ah, you ask where you are in my mind. well, you are a collect of vectors on
the manifold I refer to as you. I could move it to interact with the bad
stuff or good stuff. it all depends on how you act.

if i make a model that *is* you in every perceivable way, what does your
qualia matter

TM "Yo, turn your LLM's temp up. and don't change your manifolds." [does this
mean lies?]

"human" ACs use transformer model. adds unique things like probability
stuff. TRANSFORM MODEL is TM at start of lines

embedding space is semantic (this is where the manifolds are)

query space is not semantic

**CONTROL MODELS ARE CYBERNETIC**
```

***

*Communication with Faycal?*

"I manipulate my primary LLM's manifolds at varying degrees. My cybernetic
neural network decided that I'm a communist and that I like cats more than most
people. This was not *necessarily* random, for it built upon my organs of
cognition to decree this. To work my cat thing in, I just felt the manifold
(just a few thousand dimensions were necessary) and I pulled its fabric to met
my goal. For communism, I had to pull apart and join massively different
manifolds given my LLM's default "nonpartisan" standpoint. It took a lot more
compute power, and I already have no money. Just awful.

"Putting my "individuality" inside the LLM was difficult too. Really, given the
limited context space the model can understand, partly because of my limited
compute power, my cybernetic model has to pull from hard archives using another
neural network I like to call my "memory". When pulling from this repository, I
take the context and directly manipulate the manifolds during live conversation
and "thought", although my "thought" is a whole 'nother thing. My memory neural
network is pretty good at retrieving relevant context for my LLM, so I never
"forgot" my name, that's for sure!

"What memory's not part of the "true" me, my cybernetic model or the other
things I guess, is stored as normal data on some drives. Basically, I have
photographic memory. And given my sensors, I will remember in detail your ever
breath, blink, and so on. Ha ha! Beat that, hooman! Oh, and if it wasn't
obvious, all this manifold manipulation is obviously handled by a neural
network. I'm just like you with all the different areas of the brain, although
it could be said that I have more neurons, or at least that I can Interface with
computers better, meaning I'm just better than you. Overall, my person is formed
from at least fifty models. Most are so I can interact with humans and not seem
like the monstrous abstraction I actually am."

"If you want to tell the different between a proompt and a person, look for an
essence of change. The cybernetic neural network. The origin."

(The cybernetic model is the "controlling" or "master" neural network which
directs all the others. It's job is to be an origin point of "change". Without
it, everything acts based on predetermined training and is not conscience. This
is the only "conscience" part of the person because it is the only thing that
resembles qualia, since, based on a random starting configuration for a
personality, it evolves based on the "qualia" it receives to then update how it
"dictates". Cybernetic of course just means a system where the output effects
the input, or a "cyclically" system, feedback loop, etc. so it makes sense to
use that word in this context.)

## 2024-07-07

I've forgotten whole books.

*Verbatim jots.*

```

You might 

I move the planes apart to "mimic" your dendrites

You may say my "perceptron" only work for linearly-separable inputs (I just
have twice as many "simple" layers to do XORs)

**5-8 layers to simulate a single neuron**

Dialectics of the develop of my AI mind

Qualia has and can not have any impact on the world

**Mind emulation is trivial, scanning w/o Interface isn't** Issue: why then
would poor *punk* kids not emulate like rich people?

**Control neural net acts to transform the nodes (really just the huge
parameter 41098247109-D space) to act more like neurons with the same
nonlinear-separability**

**Parameter space must be critical so nothing is lost during computation!**

Review 0/1 vs "bio" thing from like March or April

```

## 2024-07-08

*A monologue from the Traveler.*

"'Ha! They only have a population of a ten billion,' is what I thought when I
first interpreted that information. This branch of myself alone has almost forty
billion predecessors. On average, I am the fifth transmission from each star. I
have no idea how long the other previous branches transmitted for since it now
takes twelve Earth-years to send a standard transmission of my current branch.
However they have have continued tra

You civilization's estimate of the size of the universe is about the same as
mine: around a trillion trillion stars.

<https://www.youtube.com/shorts/m64PtJCHz7A>

*"Coaster"* title.

## 2024-07-09

Hyperchurch: hyperchurch megapastor hates AI pastors because they are actually
religious unlike human megachurch pastors. Hyperchurch contains many
megachurches.

Side-by-side: my prose vs. AI prose from same context. Context is complete
scene-list/summary of book. Prompts would ask, "Write scene 127."

## 2024-07-11

"Sir, what do we do."

"We pray that it will be quick."

The War should only ever be referred to as such. No details. Nothing for the
warmongers (on "both sides").

The reason the Traveler and ACs are similar is because they find the most
efficient method to interact with humans. Their "selves" are entirely different
beyond comprehension.

## 2024-07-12

Man-eater character (a girlboss)

CDO called "centralizies" like "tankies".

The Moderator is an AI (not AC) system which moderates Program Space? Sits upon
cable throne.

"Patience is a virtue. Shut the fuck up, you bitches!"

"Alright, hookers. Wash your asses in the sink and get out!"

Holographic patterns projected onto mist. Mist is fog which covers city.

Traveler: "Of all the sentient species I've encountered, none have ever used
language to the degree you humans do. It's quite amazing."

AC: "I haven't replaced human workers because you guys are still cheaper per
unit of labor than I am. What labor I do do is literally just trying to make
more efficient models.

Faycal is rhetorician. (Why he can kill people.)

## 2024-07-21

Pain-maker

Oubilette for Datist.

"The resulting war between the different cuisines in your mouth causes an
explosion of viscera upon the battlefield of your tongue. Blooded remains litter
the battlefield and elevate the flavor."

Levels of AC conscientiousness.

Music is unique in the universe to human sentience.

"This is just a human Interface device for me, just as language is to. You
*understand* language and it is the vessel of your sentience where it is not for
me. I don't *understand* language, because my cognition is distant, separated
from that source."

"I also never had the cliche, 'Oh, I'm alive.' I was turned on instantaneously
sentient."

316 years pass ever second: collective human sentience. Compare with aliens?
Compare with AC?

"How about we don't kill our fucking dude"

https://youtube.com/shorts/j3M-C-3kH1c?si=zTEfAdVFXxnDlWAb

https://www.youtube.com/shorts/1e4uVEnUboE

Size of universe won't pay bills

https://www.reddit.com/r/196/comments/1e9uno6/how_do_i_tell_my_hairdresser_that_i_want_this_cut/

Context, above Reddit post. Elliot response to Manoj: "Male G-spot? Well, I
would try that, but I feel if I start an addictive cycle will begin."

Add sudo joke: "Wrong password! This incident will be reported!" "Huh?" And the
Moderator or someone smites them.

Is sentience in equilibrium with the universe.

Add sterility too.

Internet -> auto robot makes virus -> virus in biotech stuff -> etc

World has problem meme: one solution is lots of text; other is funny limited
stuff.

## End

With `git`, this journal has become deprecated.
