# Yaqut

Yaqut, visionary political theorist of the 2070s, created the first Oracle and
laid the foundations of what would become Pickerism not soon after. Interfaced
in 2042 by his rich family, Yaqut was one of the first people to voluntarily go
beyond the return limit at 18 years old. He embedded himself full-time at first
in the newly founded Bussard Mesh (1:700), like any good hached mesher, but
eventually decided to commit part-time to his personal studies by time-sharing,
which he was uniquely capable of.

With the significant money he made while embedded in the Bussard Mesh over the
course of 4 years (given his knack for meshing), he rented an expensive cryotank
capable of 1:2000 haching. (In this case he spent 700 in the Bussard Mesh and
1300 on his personal studies.) Yaqut avoided being drafted during the Data War
since he was hached, since hached people were no more effective than non-hached
people in Program Space. The Bussard Mesh, owned by the American government
(although used productively for peaceful purposes), was his "service" during the
war.

His personal studies lasted thousands of years. He made a deep dive into the
writings of hundreds of political theorists, past and present, and came to the
Conclusion "kill whitey". He proved his Conclusion with a 14 thousand-page work
of pure logic. Scholars were, despite millions of man-years, not able to
disprove his sound Conclusion.

Following his political work, Yaqut moved onto other areas of study. Sometime
during this shift, although the exact details are vague, Yaqut discovered the
existence of Pickers by accidentally creating an Oracle (a machine which allows
Pickers to communicate by interacting with a few, easily observable quantum
particles). Some argued that Yaqut's Oracle was fake, and that all Oracles made
after follow in line, and this is a fairly popular view. Some argued that
Pickerism was invented by Yaqut to enact his Conclusion upon the world. In this
way, Yaqut was seen as the anti-Yakubian of his time. Regardless, he died in
2073 soon after publishing Pickerism when a Super-Chooser victim's relative
assassinated him.
