# 2024-12-26

Suppose a detective is looking around a crime scene. They notice plenty of
things and think to themselves, "It's all here but I'm holding on to nothing
more than ghostly wisps of information. I can't let this state of mind pass me
by. I must bifurcate." The detective then intuitively instructs their Interface
(more specifically their neural modem, the thing which actual "is the
interface") without a voice command or even a spoken thought (side-note: this
isn't anything new, just the other side of synth-intuition which I came up with
back in February 2024) to bifurcate the state of their mind (mind-state). A copy
is made which takes around 15 seconds. The dectective is unconcious for this
time but their Interface keeps them upright by directly controlling muscles and
bodily movements. This is similar to host-detachment, which I don't know if I've
explained to you or anyone. I don't know why, just thought of that fact?
Host-detachment is where you allow an AC (artificial consciousness) to access
your "organic signal" (the I/O to your host, which is the area of cognition; it
is basically sensory and control things, "I/O"). AC's prefer to use
host-detachment to interact with other humans since no robot's really escaped
the uncanny valley. So anyway host-detachment is where you allow an AC to use
your physical signal while your host is connected to your digital signal on the
Matrix. A win-win (humans often get paid by ACs of course, unless illegal
involuntary host-detachment is somehow done through exploitation, etc.). Well
back to the bifurcations. The detective is out cold for those 15 seconds while
they bifurcate. Their mind-state is copied and digitized and stored like a Stack
from Altered Carbon (really good show). The detective is now two. One quicksave
and another still playing. The detective continues on without needing to worry
about losing that state of mind (they do, of course, but not the quicksave).
Later on, when more evidence is available, they quicksave and load the old
mind-state with certain wisps of information that are now relevant. That
mind-state appears continuous. To that version of the detective, they time
traveled forward in time instantaneously to exactly what they wanted to continue
working.

Now image a detective working on a really complex case with hundreds of moving
parts. Instead of doing everything, they bifurcate at each clue, creating a new
mind-state delegated to a specific task. The "head" mind-state is the one that
never skips time (???). Nvm that makes no sense. Whenever a mind-state is
loaded, the "head" skips forward in time. The "head" is then the meta-mind-state
which controls the others. But this introduces weird "clone" BS that's cliche.

Now in the narrative, continuous prose following individual mind-states is a
must to highlight the functionality.

The mind is not parallel as well, so only one mind-state can be loaded at a
time. And mind-states can only run on wetware brains. Just see likewise how
(Matrix) signals can't exist without their hosts. I've told my parents this, and
I've told you about the garbage collector, but the origin of that was
signal-severance, where a signal is left without a host after host-termination
(brain death of the person). This signal is the last mind-state of the host, but
without the host, it can't run more than a few seconds without deterioration.
This allows for post-mortem interrogation (cyberpunk cliche but a little bit
unique and more rigorous like all my worldbuilding). But it also allows for THE
WORLD. MY METHOD, THE WORLD, IS UNBEATABLE. I ARTIFICALLY SEVER MY SIGNAL AND
LET IT RUN FOR 5 SECONDS. However, that isn't "me", but just my signal, but it
acts like me and has cognition like my for a few seconds before deteriorating
(in this case where I simply let the garbage collector handle it before taking
that "signals" place). The World comes into play because I can overclock that
servered signal to 1,000,000,000,000,000 times speed, unlike the max "Highest recorded
survivable hach: 1:1588" (written in September 2024? IDK). This speed up is like
freezing time for those five seconds. But after I use The World, I of course
don't remember the five seconds.

Anyway back to bifurcations. I bet there's a lot more there too. I'll think more
on it. I need to actually write things down. I don't think I every wrote down
the garbage collector of signal-severance (and idea for September 2023 I revised
November 2024) ideas at all. Word vomit makes me nauseous, but I need to do it I
bet.

END OF WORD VOMIT

I will try to organize my things and thoughts on Interfaced over break so I can
freewrite in an organized manner without stress of the word vomit. I also need
to start journalling. God, all I do is talk to myself for HOURS. I've mentioned
this but I don't think you fully grasp the severity. I haven't journalled at all
since the end of senior year because I got lazy, but I remember I wrote like 20
pages a day in January 2024 and felt better. It's handwritten too which is more
difficult for me to write in but I've already got like 3 notebooks to get
through so I'm stuck there. I need to get my shit together. I legit spend at
least 6+ hours a day just thinking to myself, and at least 5 hours of that I
NEED TO WRITE DOWN!!!!!




