# Kernel Biotech Incident Prose (The Rice Hack)

From the depths of his greasy basement, Dylan executed the wrapper program
`kern_bio_rice`. The script, no more than a few kilobytes, immediately went into
action compiling the payload, which contained almost one thousand unique DNA and
RNA sequences, an AI, and a plethora of software. Due to the small size of the
AI, it could not naturally interface with computers, so it needed helper
programs. And even with the massive number of sequences and helper programs, the
AI still took up the majority of the payload. And even though it took up most of
the payload, the incredibly optimized AI only totaled a few gigabytes, since it
was created by a massive, multi-petabyte model. The payload was complete within
seconds, since all the components were already compiled.

Then, a few hundred thousand dust-sized nanocomputers --- which had embedded
operating systems to run the payload --- were flashed with the payload. Like
pollen from a tree, he brushed the computers from their mounts on the
branch-like wires. Dylan set up an old 3D printer to move the nano computers
from the tray, with a magnet, to a silicon coating liquid, into the rice grains
(after being held for a second to dry), along a makeshift conveyer, and into a
paper bag. Thus concluded months of work.

Finally, Dylan anonymously shipped the rice along with other food under the
guise of a "care package" to his accomplice, Rashid al-Haddad, in Kernel. The
target was Kernel Biotech's rice supplier, a depot in the Negev, almost a
hundred kilometers away from Kernel Biotech's factory in the Sinai, itself
located nowhere near Kernel City. Rashid received the package from a middle-man
and set out to contaminate the supply depot. The drive to the depot wasn't too
bad, and Rashid made it without any hiccups.

After walking through the larger industrial area to the depot from his car, he
found a small alcove and changed into worker's clothing. At the depot, outgoing
trucks were lined up next to the side of the facility in order of departure
time. Rashid knew the departure time of Kernel Biotech's truck, and so he knew
where to deposit the tainted rice: the third truck, which was in the process of
being loading. He simply walked as if coming from a smoke break, took off his
backpack and placed it with the other worker's backpacks, quietly unloaded the
"rice" bags, and loaded them on the truck. No one was the wiser, and he walked
away with his empty backpack and worker's clothing to another "smoke break". He
of course ensured to mask his gate, face, and other biometrics from cameras, so
even if the "rice" has discovered, he would be unidentifiable.

The truck took the nanocomputers to the Kernel Biotech factory in the middle of
nowhere. The journey took a few hours, but the truck only carried dry goods.
More workers unloaded the truck into an unsecure area. From there, the goods
were put through intensive security. Samples of food were tested, but rice was
excluded from the non-chemical tests due to its small size. The rice finally
arrived at the secure kitchen and was prepared for the factory's workers. The
nanocomputers managed to charge their batteries from the heat change of the rice
grains themselves, and from there on they had around two hours of battery life.
They had two hours to preform the automated hack.
